# INFO6105_DataScience
Course Objectives: In this course, we will explore the key techniques used in data science, machine learning, analytics and visualization. We will learn a variety of methods and software for finding patterns (such as regression, neural networks, association rules, decision analysis, text analysis, geo-spatial analysis, forecasting etc.), building models, and ultimately making decisions using data sets. We will address questions such as: - How to detect anomalies in large datasets? - How do credit-card companies detect fraud? - How to forecast credit worthiness? - What challenges does Big Data pose to companies and how to handle these challenges? In addition to understanding the techniques using case studies and in-class exercises, we will explore visualization tools using Tableau and discuss current topics of interest in this space such as Cloud computing, Big Data etc. This is a hand-on project-based course. We will work with real data. You will have to get your hands dirty. As you start looking at data sets, you will realize a couple of things. One, data is dirty and requires cleaning. We will look into various cleansing techniques and methods used in the industry. Second, information is hidden. We will look into ways in which you can explore data and try methods to extract information from data sets. Third, there is no correct answer. The tools we will demonstrate will give you methodologies to explore data sets. You will have to decide whether the information you have gathered makes sense and whether it can be used for decision making. We will work on many examples to understand the power of these techniques and learn ways of analyzing results.
